Vuex is specifically a centralized data
store for shared data logic and methods.
And it has rules regarding how exactly
state can be mutated and changed.
And of course, if you've worked
with another framework like React,
you might have heard of Redux or Flux.
And that has a very
similar concept of Vuex.
It's essentially this way
of centralizing your state,
so that state changes in
a predictable manner.
This is the diagram, the very popular
diagram in which we show the Vuex.
I think Flux also has
a very similar diagram.
It's essentially showing how exactly state
changes in sort of a flowchart diagram.
So, here we'll start with
the view component itself,
because that's sort of what the view
layer is, view as and what you can see.
And so, the view component is essentially
what the user will be interacting with.
So, user can click on it, can hover on it,
they can do whatever they want.
And the component will then
dispatch events to the Vuex store.
And the store is what you see
on the right, which is actions,
mutations, and state.
And the action is where Vuex decides
what exactly he wants to do.
So for instance, in our vending machine
example, if someone is trying to get items
from the vending machine, the action
might be fetch inventory, for example.
And so, the action is what?
Is how the application decides or
how the store decides what to
do with that particular event.
This is also a way back in APIs,
can come in handy.
It's where you're essentially calling to
a database, or reading from a data base.
And that's what happens
within actions itself.
Mutations is actually what changes and
when the state changes.
Actions and mutations are sort of
cookie because they're fairly similar.
But you can think of them as the mutation
is where the state is actually changing.
And the action is where you do filters and
maps, and
you check how exactly the state changes.
And so, mutation is just
essentially changing the state.
That's where the state changes happen.
And you can see this
within DevTools itself.
So, I'll show you what that
looks like as we progress.
But within DevTools,
you'll see the mutation that occurs.
Because that's when the state
is exactly changing and
that's what you really care about.
And then mutations obviously will mutate
the state, so mutations touch states.
Actions don't necessarily touch state but
mutations do.
And then the mutations will
mutate the state and change it.
And the state will then be propagated
back to the component itself.
So, the component will render that update,
if it cares to and if it wants to.
So, that's sort of the flow of
how Vuex works with Vuex, and
how Vuex works as a whole.
And let's break down the different pieces,
we'll go over this in the second
part of this workshop as well, but
here's just is in a high level.
So, state is a single source of truth, and
it's where you store all the information.
So, back to the vending machine example,
if you have inventory,
all of the inventory or that specific
array of items will be in the state.
Actions and mutations are similar,
except the action is
what causes the mutation.
So, the action happens,
the action is where you determine
what to do with the state.
And the mutation is where you
actually change the state.
Another way of looking at it is
that actions are asynchronous.
So, you can make database calls,
whatever that may be.
So, async and
then mutations are only synchronous.
You can't do asynchronous things and
mutations.
And then getters is something I
didn't get to in the diagram.
But it's something to think about, because
it sits in the layer between state and
components.
And getters is sort of derived state.
So, the state changes, and
it updates, and whatever.
But the getter is where you can sort of
map over the state to get specific things.
So let's see,
you have a list of inventory and
you want the inventory that's below five,
let's say.
So, you might want to use a getter for
that, because you don't necessarily need
to change the state to get
the items that are less than five.
But it's useful to have a getter to check
the states for you without you having
to do that constantly in component,
so it allows for reusability.
Cool, so, we'll look at our first
example which is sort of this
Vending Machine Stock Counter.
And so, here we have a very simple
view of a item from a vending machine,
very popular item.
We have a supplies, so
how many items are within it?
And then, you also have buttons that you
can use to interact with that supply.
So, I can dispense, and
dispense is dispensing items so
the supply counter goes down, and so on.
And then restock is just sort
of setting it back to 40 which
is an arbitrary full stock number.
And so, this is sort of a very simple
state of how you're changing and
updating, you can think of it
very similar to a counter.
We're counting up and
down, it's the same idea.
Except this is in line with
the metaphor that we've been using.
And so, if we break that particular
piece down in that view down,
we have this concept of state,
which is the supply.
And then, you have the concept
of an action and a mutation,
which is the restock in
that dispense button.
In this case, it's only restocked,
but there's a dispense button as well.
That's where the action and
the mutation happens.